# Revenue_collection_prediction
To predict the revenue per customer in the coming time span
**Project name
Collection Forecast

**Use case
To predict the revenue per customer in the coming time span

**Data set description

This dataset was chosen specifically as it contained a total of 100 features per customer 
and a total of 100000 rows which is quite sufficient to train an accurate model.

**Data set source

Dataset was collected from the internet from the link mentioned below
	"https://www.kaggle.com/abhinav89/telecom-customer"

**Data pre processing
		->The chosen dataset contained some missing entries in some of the rows for some attributes.
		  The less priority entries were filled with the average of the values of that column while 
		  rows with high priority attribute value missing were deleted from the dataset.
		->Rows having attribute value too much deviated from the mean value were also deleted.
		->One-hot encoding of non numeric attribute i.e. credictcd was done.
		->A total of ariund 83k entries were retained with 16 features in total which is ready for training.
		->The finalised dataset was splitted into training set and test set with test set being 10% of the total no. of rows.
	
**Details of python libraries used
* numpy                                                                            #for importing mathmatical functions in python 
* pandas 						                           #for importing mathmatical functions in python 

* sklearn.preprocessing import MinMaxScaler                                        #library to scale the given data
* sklearn.model_selection import train_test_split                                  #for even splitting of test and train data
* matplotlib.pyplot as plt                                                         #for graph plotting

* keras.layers import Dropout, Dense, LSTM, Embedding, Conv1D, MaxPool1D, Flatten  #importing predefined functions of machine learning

* keras import regularizers
* keras.optimizers import Adam                                                     #to generate neural network model
* keras.models import Sequential                                                   #and add functions at each layer
* keras                                                    

* sklearn.decomposition import PCA                                                 #for better fit of prediction

**Details of algorithms used

-> Linear Regression
		   Model was trained at first on a linear regression model by using batch gradient descent.
		   However the loss generated by the model was aroung 3654.0 and hence it was discarded.
		
->Artificial Neural Networks
		  The data set was then trained on a neural network model seven hidden layers and a dropout ratio of 0.1.
		  Adam optimiser was used and loss was reported in mean squared error with metric as mean absolute error.
		  The model was trained for a total of 10 epochs and batch size 32.
		  Mean squared error- 8.4485e-04
		  Mean absolute error- 0.0184
**How much was the train/test ratio

The finalised dataset was splitted into training set and test set with test set being 10% of the total no. of rows.

**How much was the accuracy
Artificial Neural Networks was the most optmized algorithm which gives out the accuracy of 88.21% when the given dataset was trained with 90% of training.

**Final results

The neural network model was finalised as it has much better accuracy than that of linear regression model.
The prediction was done for the test dataset and submitted in a graphical form.
	
Python Code file with comments
Please find the attached document for python code.

